---
title: "Meeting Summary - NOGRR245 - 08/08/24 Review of Current Status"
date: "2024-08-08"
excerpt: "ERCOT filed the original NOGRR on January 11, 2023,"
author: "GridMonitor"
---
## NOGRR245 Update – Slides

### 1 – Background of NOGRR245 - ERCOT Staff

* ERCOT filed the original NOGRR on January 11, 2023, following NERC recommendations due to IBR failures during system disturbances.
* IEEE 2800 was approved on February 8, 2023, leading to the NOGRR being tabled and referred to various working groups.
* Between February and September 2023, multiple comments were filed by market participants and others.
* On 9/14/2023, ROS granted NOGRR urgent status and recommended approval with amendments.
* TAC tabled the NOGRR on September 27, 2023, and more comments were filed until March 2024.
* On 3/27/2024 and 6/7/2024, TAC voted for recommending the NOGRR with various amendments from different groups.
* Leading to 6/17/2024, joint commenters filed opposition to the TAC recommended version, threatening to appeal if approved.
* ERCOT requested to table the NOGRR until August to address concerns of joint commenters.
* ERCOT board tabled NOGRR245 on June 18, 2024, based on ERCOT’s request.
* Since then, ERCOT staff worked on revisions with joint commenters to retain near-term benefits and bifurcate exemption processes.
* Revisions aimed to clarify or obtain JC agreement, remove redundancy, correct errors, and respond to joint commenters’ concerns.
* ERCOT plans to recommend making the subsequent bifurcation of NOGRR a board priority to be effective by April 1, 2025 to coincide with the deadline for submitting exemption requests.

### 2 – Basis of changes to TAC recommended version – ERCOT Staff – Clarification/JC Concern

Changes made to the TAC recommended version of NOGRR245:

* Key changes include clarification that output reductions due to wind speed or solar irradiance changes are exempt from penalties during ride-through events.
* Frequency ride-through and voltage ride-through requirements were updated.
* Added requirement for resources to inform ERCOT on maximized ride-through capability for modeling.
* Clarified deadlines for completing modifications and related notifications.
* Added clarity on compliance during the fault and recovery periods.
* Increased transparency on reporting resource maximization status to ERCOT.
* Clarification on the exemptions or extensions for meeting new requirements and reporting responsibilities.
* Modified information requirements for frequency and voltage ride-through capability reports.
* Resource entities must explain efforts to verify technical limitations if unable to get OEM or consultant verification.
* Stated that ERCOT will protect confidential information submitted in reports.
* Specified requirements for timely submission of extension requests by April 1, 2025.

#### 2.1 – Basis of changes to TAC recommended version - ERCOT Staff – Bifurcation

Movement to the bifurcation bucket for changes:

* Changes made to accommodate moving exemption process criteria to a new NOGRR.
    * **Section 2.6.2.1(7):** Resources must submit frequency ride through capability report and request exemptions by 4/1/25. Criteria for granting exemptions will be established in the new NOGRR.
    * **Section 2.12.1(1):** Existing facilities not meeting ride through requirements must request an extension or exemption by 4/1/25. Criteria for exemptions to be determined in subsequent NOGRR.
    * **Section 2.12.1(2):** Exemption requests can only be supplemented with additional information under the new NOGRR process. No new exemption requests allowed after 4/1/25.
    * **Section 2.12.1.3:** Removed exemption from the title; now applies only to extensions.
    * **Sections 2.12.1.3(3),(4), and (5):** Removed references to exemptions, addressed in new NOGRR.
    * **Sections 2.12.1.4(6) and (7):** Removed references to exemptions, addressed in new NOGRR.

#### 2.2 – Basis of changes to TAC recommended version - ERCOT Staff – Corrections

Bucket three corrections involved errors in the version approved by TAC:

* **2.9.1.1(1)** contained typographical errors in formulas in tables A and B.
* **2.9.1.1(8)**, renumbered, corrected paragraph numbers due to a deletion and requires entities to complete maximization by 12/31.
* **2.9.1.2(7)** was renumbered to accommodate changes.
* **2.12.1(1)** corrected section references.
* **2.12.1.4** had its title removed and subsections were renumbered as part of 2.12.1.3.

#### 2.3 – Basis of changes to TAC recommended version - ERCOT Staff – Redundancies

Removal of redundant or duplicative requirements in Operating Guide sections 2.9.1.1 and 2.12.1, focusing on avoiding duplication with IEEE 2800 standards:

* Removed Table C in 2.9.1.1(1)
* Revision and deletion of sections related to initial frequency and voltage ride-through capability reports to avoid redundancy and address objectionable language.
* Shift in focus to discuss next steps and address questions/concerns
* Upcoming discussions on August 19th in the R&M Committee regarding NOGRR245 and presentation of RFI results in line with NERC recommendations.
* Board’s consideration of NOGRR245 on August 20th, aiming for approval and subsequent filing of a new NOGRR to develop exemption criteria by April 1st of next year.
* Explanation of the process and timeline for compliance with new requirements, including potential TAC workshops to ensure expedited implementation.
* Feedback from stakeholders indicating anticipation for the redlined version and concerns about timeline constraints in the exemption criteria update process.
* Discussions about potential conflicts and access issues regarding IEEE 2800 standards, suggesting the need for reconsideration of including specific guidelines internally.
* Clarification of the PGRR109 timeline for ERCOT and TSP review of dynamic models with the intent to expedite processes for ride-through capability improvements.
* Stakeholder concerns about the practicality and timeline for meeting new requirements, with assurances of efforts to facilitate and expedite the process within allowed regulations.

### 3 – Description of How the Process Will Work, if Approved – ERCOT Staff

**Requirement:**

* By December 31, 2025, or the synchronization date, resources under construction must meet these requirements.
* Maximize software firmware settings and parameterization, including memory upgrades if necessary.
* Inform ERCOT when maximized to meet or exceed section 2.6.2.1(1)-(5) and IEEE 2800, as referenced in section 2.9.1(8).
* Report initial frequency ride through capability by April 1, 2025, if unable to maximize by the end of 2025.

**Report Content:**

* The initial frequency ride through capability report must contain information outlined in section 2.11.1(1) including:
    * Resource entity’s D-U-N-S number.
    * Software firmware settings and parameterization modifications.
    * Site name
    * Description of post-modification limitations.
    * Compliance with May 1, 2024, requirements until maximization.

**Voltage Ride Through Requirement:**

* For pre-8/1/24 resources, meet or exceed section 2.9.1.2(1)-(7) by 12/31/25 or the commercial operation date.
* Submit initial report by April 1, 2025, and request extension if unable to meet requirements by the deadline.
* Resources that meet 2.9.1.2 before 1/1/28 are exempt from IEEE 2800.

**Additional Requirements:** During exemption, extension, or appeal process, the resource must:

* Meet the greater of its maximized capability or requirements in effect on 5/1.
* Submit an implementation plan within 90 days if new software firmware setting modifications are available.
* Notify ERCOT upon completion of maximization.
* For resources with SGIA after 8/1/24 or undergoing significant modifications, frequency and voltage ride through standards to meet IEEE 2800 by the synchronization date.
* Request extension if unable to comply by the deadline.

**Performance Failures:** If a performance failure occurs:

* Investigate, report the cause, validate the model, and develop a mitigation plan.
* Implement the approved plan within 180 days.
* ERCOT may report failures to the reliability monitor if criteria are not met.

**Exemption and Extension Process Highlights:**

* Requests must be submitted by 4/1/25
* For pre-8/1/24 Resource, must accompany IFRTCR/IVRTCR
* For Resource with approved exemption/extension, max capabilities become performance criteria until it ends.
* Until exemption/extension/appeal is final, pre-8/1/24 AGIA Resource must meet greater of: (i) max capability, or (ii) requirements in effect on 5/1/23

**Extension Timeline:** Process and timeline for reviewing extension requests:

* ERCOT confirms receipt and completeness of requests.
* Requests additional information if needed.
* ERCOT will try to complete the process within 180 days or provide an estimated timeline.
* Aggrieved entities can appeal ERCOT’s decisions to the PUC under procedural rule 22.251.
* If no appeal, entity deemed to have accepted ERCOTs decision

### 4 – Questions – ERCOT Staff

* Question on repowering and replacing WTG units with type four by 4/1/27.
* Discussion about whether criteria for type 2 sites need to be submitted; confusion over criteria definitions.
* Issue of legacy units and facility’s reluctance to invest in modeling for SGIA signed before 8/1/2024. Need for specific answer and SME consultation recognized by ERCOT representative.
* Replacement work will take place from March to June 2026, site offline during this period.
* Clarification on adherence to IEEE 2800 for legacy IBR plants: must maximize capability, not just comply with minimum standards. Emphasis on maximizing equipment capabilities, not just meeting baseline requirements.
* Discussion on performance failures and requirements for software updates and hardware changes. Importance of holistic approach to evaluate facility settings and controls ensuring voltage ride-through capability.
* All exemption requests have to be in 4/1/25.
* Exemptions discussion: plants need to ask by 4/1/25 if unable to meet IEEE 2800 but should be beyond 2.9.1.2.
* Engineering concerns integrated in maximization to avoid equipment damage.
* Meeting concluded with no further questions, slides were made available for understanding procedures.

### 5 – Adjourn